# authorizations-outlook-tool
Parse a custom report from Athena and assign each procedure to the appropriate authorizations employee.

## Problem
Providers utilizing the athenahealth EHR have essentially two options for managing prior authorizations. The first is to outsource the entire process to Athena itself, providing a streamlined workflow and one-stop-shop for managing authorizations and precertifications. Leaving the task up to Athena is certainly easy: just pay your monthly fee and leave the rest to an outsourced team with no emotional connection to the patient and no accountability when a technical error causes a patient's procedure to be needlessly delayed. The debate on outsourced vs. in-house teams is beyond the scope of a GitHub repo, but I will say this: if my experience in trying to get information from Athena regarding billing processes or payment posting is anything like the experience one would have trying to find out why a prior authorization was denied, then I know that it would be nearly impossible to get in contact with a knowledgeable representative who provides meaningful insight and doesn't read from a poorly copy-and-pasted script.

The provider's other option, then, is to develop their own workflow and staff an in-house authorizations team. While the issue of patient connection and accountability is solved, the technical problem of managing these authorizations then presents itself. The athenahealth EHR does not provide a straightforward way to organize authorizations or set reminders to follow up with the more involved cases. Each authorizations employee has a worklist, or bucket, which contains all of their current orders but the EHR does not even allow the list to be sorted in any way. The employee can run an inbox report every day, but after just one month they would have dozens of spreadsheets to manage, leading to a different version of the same organization problem. Furthermore, future appointments which may require authorization are never flagged by athenahealth at all. This is an issue when a procedure is scheduled but the appointment is never assigned to the correct authorizations employee, the patient is seen, and insurnace denies the procedure for not having authorization.

## Solution
The prior authorizations team needs an efficient way to extract all assigned patient cases from the EHR and view them in an organized fashion which doesn't require managing countless spreadsheets. In fact, if we did away with spreadsheets entirely then we wouldn't have to spend time coaching our less technically-inclined colleagues on how to sort and filter columns. It would also be nice if any member of the team could update and view everyone's list in case an employee was out sick or on vacation. The solution, our team determined, was to utilize SharePoint lists. With SharePoint lists (SPL from here on), the authorizations team is presented with a simple GUI for managing all of their cases. The SPL can be customized to show only those relevant fields which would be important to the authorizations team while retaining the ability to keep track of more technical metrics in the background. The workflow is as follows:

  - Download the pre-built report from athena
  - Use a Python script to clean the report, identify employee/provider assignments, and upload the data to the SPL

And that's it. (in progress)
